In the last lecture, we covered the city of Tripoli, authentication, authorization and accounting
in this lecture.
You'll see how to configure it.
Now, in the latest version of iOS, it's moved to a different command syntax for configuring triple
aim.
But before this latest version for a long time, it used the old way of doing it that you can see on
this slide here.
And you'll still chevis being used a lot in the field.
So I'll cover the old configuration first and first.
I'll show you the radius config, then I'll show you the tax plus config verbal, very similar.
So the old way of doing radius, first thing that we want to do is to configure a backup username.
When you use triple A, you tell the of a switch that whenever you need to authenticate somebody, whenever
you're checking their username and password, we're not using a locally configured username.
The user is on Metropol a server and you can configured it.
It will use only the triple E server.
But the problem with this is that if a device loses connectivity to the server, if there's an issue
with the server or if there's an issue with the network getting to the server and you've just configured
it to use triple A, only then nobody is going to be able to log in to that device at all.
So what you want to do is configure a local user name and that will be used just as a backup.
So if a server is available, if a switch can communicate with it, then users cannot log in with the
backup username.
But if you switch cannot communicate with the server, then it feels over to using the local username.
So this means that you can still get into the device.
It stops you from getting out of it.
So to do that, we need to configure Username Vista Standard Command for that.
So we see username here.
I've used that username of backup admin and then the password is flat.
Volks one is our backup user in case we lose connectivity to the server.
Then for the rest of our trip we can fake it.
Global config.
We say triple a new model.
There is no typically old model command to build a new model just means that we're enabling triple A
on this device.
Then we configure where our servers are.
We're using radius here too.
We see reduced server hosts.
We've got ten point ten dollars ten and then we see a key flat box.
One, you configure a matching password on the triple E server and on the router and not on why we seem
to use triple A with each other.
We don't want to just have one server.
We want to have only two for redundancy.
So here we've also configured readiest server who can handle Tandoor 11 and it's using key box to switch
our radius servers added.
Then optionally, we can put these into a group so you can have different groups of different servers
if you want to.
It's not really that common to use that, but the functionality is there if you want to, to do that.
We say triple a group server radius and then give it a name.
He'd have called it FBAR for flat box radius group.
Then under there you say the servers are going to go in the group.
So we've got server handwrote Tando Pendleton and server handle 10 11, the ones that we configured
earlier then to enable triple A for authentication.
We say triple eight authentication login default group radius local.
If you don't specify a particular group of servers, then this means it can use all of the radius servers
that you've configured or not particular device.
So that's the first way you can do it, the other way you can do it.
If you have specified a particular group, as you would say, triple A authentication login default
group FBG, the group that we configured and then local.
So with Boothville we've got radius and then local.
That means the first choice is to use Vaidya servers.
Only if the radius servers cannot be reached, it will fall back to using the local username.
So that's how you configure authentication.
You can configure authorization as well with a authorization.
If you go on to the S.P. level or you do the security track, you CVS's extra triple eight commands.
OK, so that is the old configuration, the new configuration.
It just came out with the latest version of iOS.
So on the latest version of iOS, if you see a radius server who to handle it and the old style of doing
it, it will give you a warning saying that that command line is going to be deprecated soon.
Please move to using radius surburban you.
So the new way of doing it at global config, same command.
Art with is triple a new model, then we see radius server, server one, so we give it a name and that
will take us to sub command menu for configuring the radio server in there.
We specify the IP address services, address IP before ten point ten dollars 10, for example, and
then key flat box one, which matches the key that we configured on the triple A server to authenticate
this particular vibrator or switch.
Then for redundancy, we've got a second server, so we've got radio server server to address IP before
tanjil 10 11.
And the key is flat box to the name that you give them.
Doesn't have to match the hostname of the server.
It's just a name so that it can be recognized in the U.S. Then we've got a group server radius of called
FBR G again and I say server name server one and server name server two to group Beauvoir's servers
that we configured into this group.
Then to enable triple e authentication, we've got triple eight authentication default group FBR G Local.
So again, it will use the radius service first.
If they're not available, then it will fall back to using the local username.
OK, so it's a new configuration that was for radius.
Let's have a look at our tax configuration as well.
This is going to be pretty much exactly the same.
But we used the key word of Takaaki server rather than the key word of radius.
So the same kind of config.
Again, we've got username, backup oddments, secret flat box one as our backup user in case we lose,
connect to the Vitacost server to a new model.
Takaoka server hosts tend not to entertain otan QIf Lightbox one and a second server for redundancy.
Tocchet server host to handle 10.1.
Keep Lightbox to then our group triple a group server tax plus Fattig.
I've called FBG for flat box tax plus group.
This time server can handle ten on ten point ten dollars and 11 and to enable the authentication triple
eight authentication login default group FBG as a first choice and then fall back to Morkel as a second
choice.
Just like with radius.
This is the old configuration.
We have a new configuration for Taqwacores as well, which again matches the new configuration for radius
to here we attack a server who tend not to understand.
The old command will get a warning, but it's being deprecated.
Then our new command syntax is username backup admin, secret blackbox, one same command as before
to configure the backup user to a new model.
Takaaki server server one address IP before tend to handle ten and QIf Blackbox one.
We repeat voice commands for server two with its IP address, then triple a group server tax plus FBG.
I've called it for Benim.
Specify those to servers, server one and server two and then finally triple a authentication default
group.
First choice is the group FBG.
The second choice is local.
OK, so that is how we do our triple E configuration.
I'll see you in the next lecture for some best practice security.
Come on.
We want to do on our various on switches.